This study compares samples of publicly and privately held bank holding companies to examine whether the high frequency of small earnings increases relative to small earnings decreases reported by public firms is attributable to earnings management. We expect public banks' shareholders to be more likely than private banks' shareholders to rely on simple earnings坼based heuristics in evaluating firm performance, so we expect public banks to have more incentives to report steadily increasing earnings. Consistent with this expectation, we find that relative to private banks, public banks: (1) report fewer small earnings declines, (2) are more likely to use the loan loss provision and security gain realizations to eliminate small earnings decreases, and (3) report longer strings of consecutive earnings increases. These results suggest that the asymmetric pattern of more small earnings increases than decreases, first documented by Burgstahler and Dichev (1997), is attributable to earnings management and is not simply a reflection of the underlying distribution of earnings changes.
This paper provides evidence that insiders possess, and trade upon, knowledge of specific and economically significant forthcoming accounting disclosures as long as 2 years prior to the disclosure. Stock sales by insiders increase three to nine quarters prior to a break in a string of consecutive increases in quarterly earnings. Insider stock sales are greater for growth firms, before a longer period of declining earnings, and when the earnings decline at the break is greater. Consistent with avoiding an established legal jeopardy, there is little abnormal selling in the two quarters immediately prior to the break.
We provide evidence that transient institutional investors (i.e., those actively trading to maximize short term profits) trade to exploit the post-earnings announcement drift (PEAD). We estimate that transient institutions＊ arbitrage generates an abnormal return of 5.1% (or 22% annualized) after transaction costs. In addition, their arbitrage trades accelerate the speed that stock prices reflect the implications of current earnings for future earnings. However, transient institutions trade less aggressively to exploit PEAD in firms with high transaction costs. Our results contribute to understanding the role of transient institutional investors in explaining the persistence of PEAD.
We investigate if the SEC＊s recently mandated disclosure of fees for audit and nonaudit services paid by firms to their incumbent auditors affected the market＊s perception of auditor independence and earnings quality. Following the initial fee disclosures in 2001, we find that the market valuation of quarterly earnings surprises (earnings response coefficient) was significantly lower for firms with high levels of nonaudit fees than for firms with low levels of such fees. In contrast, in the year prior to the new fee disclosures, there was no reduction in earnings response coefficients for firms that subsequently reported high nonaudit fees. Our evidence suggests that mandated fee disclosures provided new information that was viewed by the market as relevant to appraising auditor independence and earnings quality.
This study offers evidence on the earnings forecast bias analysts use to please firm management and the associated benefits they obtain from issuing such biased forecasts in the years prior to Regulation Fair Disclosure. Analysts who issue initial optimistic earnings forecasts followed by pessimistic earnings forecasts before the earnings announcement produce more accurate earnings forecasts and are less likely to be fired by their employers. The effect of such biased earnings forecasts on forecast accuracy and firing is stronger for analysts who follow firms with heavy insider selling and hard坼to坼predict earnings. The above results hold regardless of whether a brokerage firm has investment banking business or not. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that analysts use biased earnings forecasts to curry favor with firm management in order to obtain better access to management's private information.
We examine whether transient institutional investors (i.e., institutions that trade actively to maximize short坼term profits) have information that allows them to predict a break in a string of consecutive quarterly earnings increases and thereby avoid the economically significant negative stock price response associated with the break announcement. We show that transient institutions predict the break at least one quarter in advance of the break quarter. We also provide evidence that is consistent with transient institutions obtaining information regarding the impending break from private communications with management.
We investigate the relation between CEO compensation and accounting performance measures as a function of ownership structure. We use publicly-held property-liability insurers to consider the relation for firms with diffusely-held ownership and use privately-held property-liability insurers to consider the relation for firms with closely-held ownership. We find a significant positive association between return on assets and the level of compensation for publicly-held insurers. Consistent with optimal contracting theory, we find no such relationship for privately-held insurers. Results suggest that within closely-held firms CEO compensation is less based on objective measures like accounting information and more on subjective measures.
This study investigates the relationship between insiders＊ trades and a firm＊s information environment. We address the basic question: Are candidate measures for the degree of information asymmetry between a firm＊s managers and other market participants associated with insiders＊ trades in the manner predicted by theories of informed trading? Specifically, we analyze how six candidate measures of information asymmetry explain cross-sectional variation in insiders＊ trades.
Evidence contrasting U.S. insider trades in high- and low-jeopardy periods and across firms at high and low risk for 10b-5 litigation indicates that insiders condition their trades on foreknowledge of price-relevant public disclosures, but avoid profitable trades when the jeopardy associated with such trades is high, such as immediately before earnings announcements. Insiders avoid profitable trades before quarterly earnings are announced and sell (buy) after good (bad) news earnings announcements. Insiders trade most heavily after earnings announcements and profit from foreknowledge of price-relevant information in the forthcoming Form 10-K or 10-Q filing.
We assess the impact of Regulation Fair Disclosure (Reg FD) on the trading behavior of transient institutional investors in the quarter prior to a bad news break in a string of consecutive earnings increases. Bad news breaks are defined as breaks that are by growth firms, preceded by longer strings of consecutive earnings increases, followed by longer strings of consecutive earnings decreases, and associated with larger declines in earnings. Pre每Reg FD transient institutions have abnormal selling of stocks in the quarter immediately preceding a bad news break. This abnormal selling is confined to firms that hold conference calls in the pre每Reg FD period. However, in the post每Reg FD period transient institutions do not exhibit similar abnormal selling of stocks in the quarter before a bad news break. Furthermore, after Reg FD transient institutions allocate less of their stock portfolios to conference call firms relative to non每conference call firms in the quarters prior to a bad news break. These results demonstrate that Reg FD has had an impact on management's selective disclosure behavior and significantly changed the trading behavior of transient institutions.
This study examines whether China's weak institutional environment results in lower-quality audits by the Big 4 firms. We find that the Big 4 assign their less experienced partners to companies that are listed only in China compared with clients cross-listed in Hong Kong. The Big 4 are less likely to issue modified audit reports, and they charge lower audit fees for clients that are listed only in China. Finally, companies listed only in China have larger signed abnormal accruals than do companies cross-listed in Hong Kong. Overall, we conclude that the weak institutional environment in China results in the Big 4 firms providing lower-quality audits to companies that are listed only in China.
We compare the sensitivity of managerial cash compensation to firm performance, the level of long term managerial incentives, and the sensitivity of CEO turnover to firm performance for three types of state-controlled Chinese firms: A shares (firms incorporated and listed in mainland China), H shares (firms incorporated in mainland China but listed in Hong Kong), and Red Chip shares (firms incorporated outside mainland China and listed in Hong Kong). We find no difference in the three pay-for-performance sensitivity measures between H shares and A shares. The cash pay-for-performance sensitivity and the level of long-term managerial incentives are higher for Red Chip shares than for the other two firm types. However, the sensitivity of CEO turnover to firm performance is insignificant for all three firm types. Our study illustrates the complexity in the influence of mainland China＊s versus Hong Kong＊s institutional forces on state-controlled Chinese firms listed in Hong Kong.
Previous studies document that publicly traded firms report more small increases in earnings than small decreases in earnings and long strings of consecutive earnings increases. Although the two earnings properties have been partially attributed to earnings management, there is little consensus on why CEOs of publicly traded firms have incentives to do so. Using a sample of publicly traded firms from the EXECOMP database during 1992-98, the objective of this study is to analyze the determinants of the two properties of accounting earnings. Specifically, this study considers both direct CEO compensation incentives (i.e., bonus and equity incentives) and other earnings management incentives, including book-to-market ratio (a proxy for value vs. growth stock), financial leverage, and analyst following. Probit regression results indicate that the probability of reporting a small increase in earnings is increasing in CEO equity-based compensation incentives and decreasing in a firm's book-to-market ratio. Regression results from the event history analysis determine that the duration of consecutive earnings increases is increasing in both CEO bonus incentive and equity incentives but decreasing in a firm's book-to-market ratio. In addition, the event history analysis suggests that, as the duration of consecutive earnings increases becomes longer, firms with low book-to-market ratios (growth stocks) have a stronger incentive to report continuous increases in earnings than firms with high book-to-market ratios (value stocks). Interestingly, firms with high analyst following and high leverage are less likely to report either small increases in earnings or long duration of consecutive earnings increases. The above conclusions were obtained after controlling for changes in operating cash flows, changes in nondiscretionary accruals, and other control variables. The results in the paper contribute to our understanding of the determinants of accounting earnings for publicly traded firms.
While a large literature has examined analysts＊ earnings forecasts or stock recommendations in isolation, there is little research on the effectiveness with which analysts translate their earnings forecasts into recommendations (referred to as translational effectiveness). This study provides a comprehensive analysis of the determinants of analysts＊ translational effectiveness, including the investment banking pressure considered in prior research and four new factors (i.e., insider trading, trading commissions, institutional ownership and investor sentiment). Consistent with prior research, the influence of investment banking on translational effectiveness is reduced in the period subsequent to the 2002/2003 regulatory changes. However, the effect of insider trading, institutional ownership and investor sentiment on translational effectiveness remains as significant or becomes even stronger. In addition, the combined influence of these four new factors on translational effectiveness is as equally important as the influence of the investment banking pressure.
We use quarterly institutional ownership changes to test the effect of investment horizon on institutional investors' incentives to acquire private information on long term earnings. Short horizon institutions' ownership changes contain private information on long term earnings, but only to the extent that such private information will be reflected in near term stock prices. There is little evidence that long horizon institutions' ownership changes contain private information on long term earnings that will be revealed in near term stock prices, but long horizon institutions' ownership changes contain private information on long term earnings that will be reflected in longer term stock prices.
This study provides empirical evidence that equity-based incentives (stock and stock options) encourage CEOs to manage earnings to increase short run stock prices so that they can cash out a portion of their equity holdings at inflated prices. CEOs who hold high equity-based incentives are more likely to manage earnings to report strings of consecutive earnings increases and sell stocks in approximately two to six quarters prior to a break in a string of consecutive earnings increases. These effects are stronger for firms whose stock prices are very sensitive to earnings. Consistent with avoiding the perception of illegal insider trading, CEOs with high equity-based incentives do not sell shares in the quarter immediately prior to the break.
This paper assesses whether insurers＊ state taxes reduce purchases of property-casualty coverage. Tests are conducted using state aggregates of insurer-level data from publicly available, annual accounting reports for 1993每1995. A positive relation between self-insurance and state taxes is detected, consistent with consumers opting to self-insure rather than bear the incidence of higher insurer taxes. As expected, tax effects vary with the elasticity of demand. When demand is largely inelastic, e.g., automobile liability coverage, taxes do not affect self-insurance.
This study empirically investigates how taxes affect managerial compensation for a sample of privately held insurers whose managers own a large percentage of the firm's stock (I refer to these as management坼owned insurers) during 1989每1996. Shareholder/managers receive two types of income from the firm they own: compensation income as employees, and investment income as shareholders. Although compensation income is taxable to employees and deductible by employers, investment income is subject to double taxation. Thus, the mix of the two is an important tax坼planning decision for management坼owned insurers. I predict and find that as individual tax rates increased relative to corporate tax rates from 1989每1992 to 1993每1996, shareholder/managers paid themselves less tax坼deductible compensation relative to a control sample of nonmanagement坼owned insurers (i.e., privately held insurers with no managerial ownership). The study's results expand our understanding of management坼owned, privately held firms' tax坼planning strategies, and have implications for the efficiency of the federal income tax system.
