This study examines whether China's weak institutional environment results in lower-quality audits by the Big 4 firms. We find that the Big 4 assign their less experienced partners to companies that are listed only in China compared with clients cross-listed in Hong Kong. The Big 4 are less likely to issue modified audit reports, and they charge lower audit fees for clients that are listed only in China. Finally, companies listed only in China have larger signed abnormal accruals than do companies cross-listed in Hong Kong. Overall, we conclude that the weak institutional environment in China results in the Big 4 firms providing lower-quality audits to companies that are listed only in China.
We compare the sensitivity of managerial cash compensation to firm performance, the level of long term managerial incentives, and the sensitivity of CEO turnover to firm performance for three types of state-controlled Chinese firms: A shares (firms incorporated and listed in mainland China), H shares (firms incorporated in mainland China but listed in Hong Kong), and Red Chip shares (firms incorporated outside mainland China and listed in Hong Kong). We find no difference in the three pay-for-performance sensitivity measures between H shares and A shares. The cash pay-for-performance sensitivity and the level of long-term managerial incentives are higher for Red Chip shares than for the other two firm types. However, the sensitivity of CEO turnover to firm performance is insignificant for all three firm types. Our study illustrates the complexity in the influence of mainland China¡¯s versus Hong Kong¡¯s institutional forces on state-controlled Chinese firms listed in Hong Kong.
We examine whether home country investor protection and ownership structure affect cross©\listed firms' compliance with SOX©\mandated internal control deficiency (ICD) disclosures. We develop a proxy for the likelihood of cross©\listed firms' ICD misreporting during the Section 302 reporting regime. For cross©\listed firms domiciled in weak investor protection countries, we have three main findings. First, firms whose managers control their firms and have voting rights in excess of cash flow rights are more likely to misreport ICD than other firms during the Section 302 reporting regime. Second, there is a positive association between the likelihood of ICD misreporting and voluntary deregistration from the SEC prior to the Section 404 effective date. Third, for firms that chose not to deregister, there is a positive association between the likelihood of ICD misreporting and the reporting of previously undisclosed ICDs during the Section 404 reporting regime. We do not find similar evidence for cross©\listed firms domiciled in strong investor protection countries. Our findings are consistent with the hypothesis that, for cross©\listed firms domiciled in weak investor protection countries, managers who have the ability and incentive to expropriate outside minority shareholders are reluctant to disclose ICDs in order to protect their private control benefits. The results of our study should be of interest to regulators who wish to identify noncompliant firms for closer supervision, investors who wish to identify ex ante red flags for poor financial disclosure quality, and researchers who wish to understand the economic forces governing cross©\listed firms' financial disclosure behavior.
Using a 2004 Chinese securities regulation that requires equity offering proposals to obtain the separate approval of voting minority shareholders, we examine whether giving minority shareholders increased control over corporate decisions helps to reduce value-decreasing corporate decisions for firms domiciled in weak investor protection countries. We find that the regulation deters management from submitting value-decreasing equity offering proposals in firms with higher mutual fund ownership. There is also weak evidence that minority shareholders are more likely to veto value-decreasing equity offering proposals in firms with higher mutual fund ownership in the post-regulation period. Overall, our evidence suggests that in weak investor protection countries, the effect of granting minority shareholders increased control over corporate decisions on the quality of corporate decisions depends on the composition of minority shareholders.
We examine the determinants and consequences of stock option compensation to directors of state-controlled Chinese firms that are incorporated outside China and listed in Hong Kong, referred to as state-controlled Red Chip firms, over the period 1990¨C2005. We find that state-controlled Red Chip firms granted directors a significant number of stock options in response to the demand of foreign investors. However, state-controlled Red Chip firms forced the directors to forfeit a significant percentage of their vested in-the-money stock options due to a conflict between the high-powered stock option compensation and state-controlled Red Chip firms' unique managerial labor market. We find little evidence that directors' stock option compensation changed the behavior of state-controlled Red Chip firms. Overall, our results are consistent with the media's allegation that the stock options granted to directors of many, if not all, state-controlled Red Chip firms are not genuine compensation.
We examine the impact of Chinese President Xi Jinping¡¯s anti-corruption campaign on shareholder value of publicly listed Chinese firms. We find that the anticorruption campaign reduces the profitability of the firms that sell luxury goods and services.The anti-corruption campaign helps reduce excessive perk consumption by luxury goods and services consuming SOEs but, as predicted, we find no evidence that the campaign affects excessive perk consumption by luxury goods and services consuming non-SOEs. However, we find no evidence that the campaign had a positive or negative impact on net shareholder value for luxury goods and services consuming SOEs and non-SOEs. 
We investigate if the SEC¡¯s recently mandated disclosure of fees for audit and nonaudit services paid by firms to their incumbent auditors affected the market¡¯s perception of auditor independence and earnings quality. Following the initial fee disclosures in 2001, we find that the market valuation of quarterly earnings surprises (earnings response coefficient) was significantly lower for firms with high levels of nonaudit fees than for firms with low levels of such fees. In contrast, in the year prior to the new fee disclosures, there was no reduction in earnings response coefficients for firms that subsequently reported high nonaudit fees. Our evidence suggests that mandated fee disclosures provided new information that was viewed by the market as relevant to appraising auditor independence and earnings quality.
We examine the consequences of shifting the IPO offer pricing power from securities regulators to market participants in a representative weak investor protection country, China. We show IPO offer prices relative to reported earnings are less depressed when determined by market participants than by securities regulators. IPO firms are also less likely to select a low quality auditor or inflate the pre-IPO earnings when IPO offer prices are determined by market participants. However, we find no evidence that IPO offerings are more likely to be overpriced when offer prices are determined by market participants. Furthermore, IPO firms' financial reporting choices made at the time of the IPO have a long lasting impact on the firms' subsequent financial reporting quality. Overall, our results contribute to the ongoing debate on the appropriate roles of securities regulators versus market forces in protecting public investors in markets with weak institutional environments.
Measuring the information content of news text is useful for decision makers in their investments since news information can influence the intrinsic values of companies. We propose a model to automatically measure the information content given news text, trained using news and corresponding cumulative abnormal returns of listed companies. Existing methods in finance literature exploit sentiment signal features, which are limited by not considering factors such as events. We address this issue by leveraging deep neural models to extract rich semantic features from news text. In particular, a novel tree-structured LSTM is used to find target-specific representations of news text given syntax structures. Empirical results show that the neural models can outperform sentiment-based models, demonstrating the effectiveness of recent NLP technology advances for computational finance.
Merger and Acquisition (M&A) has been a critical practice about corporate restructuring. Previous studies are mostly devoted to evaluating the suitability of M&A between a pair of investor and target company, or a target company for its propensity of being acquired. This paper focuses on the dual problem of predicting an investor¡¯s prospective M&A based on its activities and firmographics. We propose to use a mutually-exciting point process with a regression prior to quantify the investor¡¯s M&A behavior. Our model is motivated by the so-called contagious ¡®wave-like¡¯ M&A phenomenon, which has been well-recognized by the economics and management communities. A tailored model learning algorithm is devised that incorporates both static profile covariates and past M&A activities. Results on CrunchBase suggest the superiority of our model. The collected dataset and code will be released together with the paper.
Using a proprietary database of institutional investors¡¯ daily stock trading records in the post¨CRegulation Fair Disclosure (FD) period, this study examines whether transient institutions have the independent ability to correctly process small negative earnings surprise announcements, which management claims transient institutions have difficulty in interpreting. We find economically significant abnormal selling by transient institutions in response to small negative earnings surprises. Transient institutions¡¯ selling in response to small negative earnings surprises is also associated with significant contemporaneous stock price declines. However, we find no evidence that transient institutions¡¯ trading in response to small negative earnings surprises is an overreaction as there is no reversal of stock prices subsequent to transient institutions¡¯ trading. More importantly, we show that transient institutions¡¯ trading in response to small negative earnings surprises helps improve the informational efficiency of share prices.
Using a 2004 Chinese securities regulation that requires equity offering proposals to seek the separate approval of minority shareholders, we examine whether giving minority shareholders direct control over corporate decisions helps reduce value decreasing corporate decisions in firms with concentrated share ownership. We find that the regulation deters management from submitting value decreasing equity offering proposals in firms with higher mutual fund ownership but not in firms with higher ownership by either other institutions or individuals. There is also weak evidence that minority shareholders are more likely to veto value decreasing equity offering proposals in firms with higher mutual fund ownership in the post-regulation period. Overall, our evidence suggests that the effect of granting minority shareholders direct control over corporate decisions on the quality of corporate decisions depends on the composition of minority shareholders.
This paper studies how machine learning techniques can facilitate the detection of accounting fraud in publicly traded US firms. Existing studies often mimic human experts and employ the financial or nonfinancial ratios as the features for their systems. We depart from these studies by adopting raw accounting variables, which are directly available from a firm¡¯s financial statement and thereby can be easily applied to new firms at low cost. Further, we collected the most complete fraud dataset of US publicly traded firms and labeled the fraud and non-fraud firm-years. One key issue of the dataset is that the data is extremely imbalanced, in which the fraud firm-years are often less than one percent. Without re-sampling the data, we further propose to tackle the imbalance issue by adopting the techniques of imbalanced learning. In particular, we employ the linear and nonlinear Biased Penalty Support Vector Machine and the Ensemble Methods, both of which have been proved to successfully handle the imbalance issue in the machine learning literatures. We finally evaluate our approach by conducting extensive empirical studies. Empirical results show that the proposed schema can achieve much better performance, in terms of balanced accuracy, than the state of the art. Besides the performance, our approaches can also compute very fast, which further supports their practical deployment. 
We examine how China¡¯s adoption of a new set of Chinese Accounting Standards (CAS) that is substantially converged with the IFRS affects the managerial pay-for-accounting performance sensitivity of publicly listed Chinese firms. We find that central-government-controlled firms adopted an economically significant managerial pay-for-accounting performance sensitivity prior to the new CAS adoption. However, the pay-for-accounting performance sensitivity declined significantly after the new CAS adoption, especially for central-government-controlled firms that were more significantly affected by the new CAS adoption. We do not find similar evidence for local-government-controlled firms whose managers were not subject to economically significant pay-for-accounting performance sensitivity prior to the new CAS adoption. There is no evidence that the difference in results between the two types of firms is due to confounding events. Overall, our results suggest that China¡¯s new CAS adoption reduces the stewardship usefulness of financial reporting.
The objective of this paper is to provide a personal perspective on how to protect investors of publicly listed Chinese firms. The key points of my discussion can be summarized as follows. First, I describe China¡¯s investor protection problems and then discuss the importance of investor protection in China. This discussion raises the possibility that strong investor protection may not be a necessary condition for a nation¡¯s economic prosperity. Second, I propose a conceptual framework that I argue all stakeholders should use when judging the superiority of alternative investor protection mechanisms. Third, I analyze the challenges and opportunities for academic researchers interested in studying China¡¯s investor protection. I highlight the difficulty of drawing causal inferences from observed data, the difficulty of quantifying all costs and benefits of regulatory reforms, and the difficulty of China¡¯s unique institutional environment, which may call for investor protection mechanisms with Chinese characteristics. I also identify exciting new research opportunities that China presents to corporate governance researchers.
